# C
A collection of utilities written in C

- `math` contains small mathematical utilities and libraries.
    - `dectobin` is a decimal to binary converter.
    - `pcal` is a Reverse Polish Notation calculator.
    - `matrixop` and `matrixdet` showcase some basic operations with 2D matrices.
    - `Matrix` is a tiny library which helps perform operations on 2D matrices.
    - `graphtest` showcases some basic operations with graphs.
    - `Graph` is a tiny library which helps perform basic operations on undirected graphs.
    - `ramanujan` gives all the ways a number can be expressed as the sum of two cubes.
- `prime` contains programs pertaining to prime numbers.
    - `primecalc` counts and produces prime numbers using the Sieve of Eratosthenes.
    - `BitArray` is a tiny library which simulates an array of individually controllable bits, with no wasted space.
- `roots` contains programs which numerically calculate roots of functions.
    - `tabulation` identifies the subintervals containing roots.
    - `bisection` identifies the location of roots using the bisection algorithm.
    - `regulafalsi` identifies the location of roots using the method of false position.
    - `newtonraphson` identifies the location of roots using the Newton-Raphson algorithm.
- `ode` contains programs which numerically solve ordinary differential equations.
    - `euler` solves an ODE using Euler's method.
    - `rungekutta` solves an ODE using a fourth order Runge-Kutta method.
- `io` contains programs which deal with basis input/output operations.
    - `count` is a line/word/character counter, which largely behaves the same as the `wc` program.
    - `search` displays those lines supplied in standard input which contain the string given as a command line argument.
    - `monthnames` displays the names of the months corresponding to the numbers given as command line arguments.
    - `args` demonstrates a very basic usage of the `getopt()` method of parsing command line arguments.
- `ttt` contains a tic-tac-toe game with the minimax algorithm.
    - `ttt` starts a game of tic-tac-toe, with the human player moving first and the computer playing with minimax.
    - `Board` gives an interface for manipulating a 3x3 tic-tac-toe board and implements the minimax algorithm.
- `nqueens` contains a solver for the n-queens problem.
- `sort` contains programs implementing various sorting algorithms.
    - `qsort` is an implementation of quicksort.
- `random` contains utilities experimenting with randomness.
    - `rnd` displays integers generated by C's random number generator.
